frontend/README.md, before:

# Frontend

This React + Vite application provides a very small portal for both customers and merchants.  It talks to the microservices through the gateway API.

## Available Pages

- Product listing and creation
- Order listing and creation
- User listing and creation
- Shipment listing and creation
- Payment submission
- Analytics metrics view
- Authentication and basic risk check

## Development

```
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

Create a `.env` file and set `VITE_API_BASE_URL` to the URL of the gateway (e.g. `http://localhost`).
The docker compose configuration maps the gateway to port 80. When running the gateway by itself, it defaults to port 8000 so update the URL as needed.
If the gateway has the `key-auth` plugin enabled, also provide `VITE_API_KEY` with your API key so the frontend can authenticate its requests.

### Docker

Build and run the UI in a container for standalone testing:

```bash
docker compose up --build
```

The Dockerfile installs both dependencies and devDependencies so that
TypeScript tooling has access to packages like `@types/node` during the build.

The site will be served on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). Adjust `VITE_API_BASE_URL` in `docker-compose.yml` if necessary.

Commit message:

Update API base URL for containers

frontend/README.md, after:

# Frontend

This React + Vite application provides a very small portal for both customers and merchants.  It talks to the microservices through the gateway API.

## Available Pages

- Product listing and creation
- Order listing and creation
- User listing and creation
- Shipment listing and creation
- Payment submission
- Analytics metrics view
- Authentication and basic risk check

## Development

```
cd frontend
npm install
npm run dev
```

Create a `.env` file and set `VITE_API_BASE_URL` to the gateway URL (use `http://localhost` for local development).
When the frontend runs inside Docker Compose, point it to `http://gateway:8000` so requests reach the gateway container.
If the gateway has the `key-auth` plugin enabled, also provide `VITE_API_KEY` with your API key so the frontend can authenticate its requests.

### Docker

Build and run the UI in a container for standalone testing:

```bash
docker compose up --build
```

The Dockerfile installs both dependencies and devDependencies so that
TypeScript tooling has access to packages like `@types/node` during the build.

The site will be served on [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000). Adjust `VITE_API_BASE_URL` in `docker-compose.yml` if necessary (e.g. `http://gateway:8000`).
